---
layout: post
status: published
published: true
title: New Gigs, New Digs
---
Started a new gig about three weeks ago.  Sad to leave the old team and
friends.  It was awesome and I grew in a lot of ways.  But this new
place is probably what I was looking for.

It's way too early to call or judge or even sum up because it takes me
about _three months to settle into any new job and place_.  You might
think that's ridiculous but I've unsciencely tracked this and it holds
up.  Slow burn man.  It's three months.

The new place is [Goldstar](http://goldstar.com).  We sell discount tickets
fill events and have amazing customer service in and around this domain.
From the tech side, the app is Rails and mobile with a set of *amazing*
devs and ops peeps.  We have expanded the tech team very recently and
I'm one of the new recruits.

Learning a codebase is rough.  Building a codebase and learning along
the way is much more natural and comes with an advantage that needs to
be cared for and not abused.  _"Can you not code?"_  This isn't
happening at the new place.  I'm more amplifying what Katrina Owen said
on Ruby Rogues about [a book](http://www.amazon.com/Vehicles-Experiments-Psychology-Valentino-Braitenberg/dp/0262521121)
that explains _downhill synthesis, uphill analysis_.  It's way easier to
understand a system when you've built it.  Not even because the code is
fresh in your mind.  But because you hold the structure and general
layout and design, connected by memories and breadcrumbs.  When starting
from the outside, it's code splunking.  Even if there are tests.  Most
of the time, I'll break the test and see what happens.  And then fix it.
This simulates the synthesis part!  Take it apart and put it back
together for the *put it back together part*.  This didn't really click
until Katrina enlightened me.  I thanked her on Twitter.  She was happy.
Happy time.

So let's talk about something pretty serious.  This perceived skill gap.
It wasn't as bad as I thought it would be.  I'm hanging with smart
people but have a massive case of impostor syndrome.  But right before
this job, I wondered if the small-shop world had accelerated way past
the big-scary enterprise world.  And it has.  But it's not a huge deal!
Do you know why?  Because C, Unix, TCP/IP, Sockets, CAP Theorem, I/O
speeds, SOLID, ACID and all the other
non-science-laws-this-is-the-best-we-can-do-guys stuff of computer
science is forever.  It's the bedrock.  It's what's really happening.
And once you know or even have a previous story/tale about these things
then learning today's Hipsterware™ is no big deal.

What's Riak?  I don't know!  It's consistent and available?  Oh!  It
must be really slow.  Yep!  Great!  Right there I can knock it out of a
few use cases where Redis or Memcached would be put in there.  I could
blather on about this.  It's really not healthy.  It's pretty arrogant
actually.  Most of the work is not in the initial introduction and
overview.  It's in the deep and long lived implementation where your
cherished newlywed tech betrays you in your most dire moment of
edge-case mortality.  There are so many things that I think are really
great because I haven't seen them blow up in my face in prod.  There are
lots of things that I used to think are great, which now I say "yeah
..." unsurely because I've seen them blow up or not be a good fit.

I still have many miles to walk.  Here some things that I'm predicting
WITH MY MIND POWERS that I'll learn and or gain from this new gig.

* vim - My vimfiles and dotfiles have been challenged.  Not even an
  editor war.  An editor civil war.  Are leader keys evil?  Is nerdtree
  evil?  Yes!?  What?!  I submit.  I yield!  I see the speed at which
  you are navigating files.  I have thought about your strategy before
  and not seen it in action.  Fine.  I will delete my `.vimrc` and use
  yours.  I've done it before with
  [janus](https://github.com/carlhuda/janus).  I can start over again.
  Each time, I learn something new.  The goal now is to stay as close to
  vanilla vim as possible.

* Ruby - looking forward to pairing with lots of folks.  I've been
hearing a lot of great discussion.  Lots of end-game topics.
_"What is intention revealing?  What is this actually doing?  What is the
difference between these two classes?  Let's measure how fast this runs
if we try it this way."_

* AWS - A bigger setup than I'm used to.  VPC I've done.  But not so
  many objects.  Learning lots of integrations within AWS.  Pulling and
  syncing to buckets and stuff.  I'm sure I'll be flexing the `fog` gem
  at some point.

* Instrumentation - It's a big deal.  There are many cloud services in
  action.  Some are overlapping.  It's neat.  It's real.  Retros where
  we look at code climate scores.  Custom dashboards.  I donated a
  raspberry pi for the cause.  "Hook it up to the TV!  Give me real
  insight.  Get it done.  Yay!"  Pretty sweet.

* Automation and CM - Chef is being used in a really nice way.  It's
  changing and evolving.  No sacred cows.  Custom tooling.  Chef server
  is a bit slow, so move everything out.  Put state somewhere else.  We
  need to beef up the custom bits of this.  We're also working on other
  tools around containers.  There's no single tool really.  It's very
  practical.  No sacred tools.  I'm very impressed with the ops folks.
  It's kind of beautiful.

* The Business - It's so easy to drown in tech.  I'm looking forward to
  seeing all the pieces come together and watch something real happen.
  Ernie Miller said it best:

  > Humane Development, to me, means the acknowledgement that we are
  > humans working with humans to develop software for the benefit of
  > humans.

  To me, this is where you see the user story get run not by your test
  suite but by a real customer or person.  It's the best part for lots
  of reasons.


Everyone is really good.  That's the job.  The digs part is, our rental
is coming to a close and we've bought a house.  The next time I post
might be from a different location.  But not so far from where I'm at
now.  We love Portland.  I miss friends/family but we're staying.

I hope this town becomes a tech sanctuary for Bay Area and Seattle burnouts.

